Nicholas Barr-Mira
Professor Ohara
Information Studies 
27 June 2018

                                                    Blog Post #1

        The knowledge and impact of the internet and technology on society is greatly felt in the way that we think and act towards communication. For example, the telegraph was the first technological innovation that separated communication with transportation. Because communication could happen almost instantly, business transactions and messages increased the rate of production. According to James Carey in Technology and Ideology: The Case of the Telegraph, “ The most important fact about the telegraph is at once the most obvious and innocent: It permitted for the first time the effective separation of communication from transportation.” ( Carey 3) This ability was most largely felt in industrial and corporate industries, while also within local communities. The idea that a person on the east coast could communicate with a person on the west coast in a matter of minutes allowed for faster production because tasks and information could be relayed faster. 
         In local communities the telegraph affected the religious life because of the lack of physical material involved in the process of communication. The innovation was extremely advanced for the time and the knowledge and understanding of how electricity worked was very minimal. Quoting a Boston Reverend Carey says, “Electricity, the Reverend Ezra S. Gannett told his Boston congregation, was both the “swift winged messenger of destruction” and the “vital energy of material creation. The invisible, imponderable substance, force, whatever it be—we do not even certainly know what it is which we are dealing with.” (Carey 5) Personally when reading and thinking about how the internet and technology has influenced the way society treats communication, I realized my outlook in communication is incredibly provincial and different than my parents and grandparents. As human beings we seem to externally place importance on verbal communication and personal dialogue; however, we are often afraid to face a physical being when wanted to talk about something important and resort to technology to engage in discussion. The internet has provided a very superficial wall that people can hide behind and protect themselves with. 
          The understanding of the internet and its complexity by the vast majority of internet users is incredibly low. I too am one who is a frequent user of the internet with very little to none understanding of how it works or even where it came from. This lack of knowledge is the source of much frustration experienced by internet users that come across when trying to understand an issue he or she is having with the web. According to Paul Dourish in Not The Internet, but This Internet: How Othernets Illuminate Our Feudal Internet, “We need to take an approach to “the Internet” that begins with an understanding of its technical reality,... we want to maintain a focus on the social and cultural reality of technologies such as the Internet.” (Dourish 2) Because the internet is such a complex entity, understanding the basics is already a difficult task in and of itself, yet a proper understanding of the basics can lead for smarter innovation in the future with decreased frequency of issues with the internet. 

                                                    Works Cited

Carey, J. (2009). Technology and Ideology: The Case of the Telegraph 
Dourish, P. (2015) Not The Internet, but This Internet: How Othernets Illuminate Our Feudal Internet. 5th Decennial Aarhus Conference on Critical Alternatives
